h1. JavaScript Style

h2. Formatting

h3. Line Length

Avoid lines longer than *80 characters*. When a statement will not fit on a single line, it may be necessary to break it. Place the break after an operator, ideally after a comma. A break after an operator decreases the likelihood that a copy-paste error will be masked by semicolon insertion. The next line should be indented 8 spaces.

h3. Quote

Use double quotes.

h3. Indentation

JavaScript code should be indented 4 spaces.

h3. Whitespaces

h2. Variables

All variable names should begin with *a letter* and use *camelCase* (first letter of each new word is capitalized). Do not use underscores in variable names. Example:

<pre>personName</pre>

* Variables should indicate their type in one of the following three ways:

    |_.Type|_.Usage|_.Example|
    |_.HTMLElement|variable *El* |bodyEl|
    |_.Node|variable *Node* |bodyNode|
    |_.NodeList|variable *Nodes* |itemNodes|
    |_.Array|variable *s* |items|
    |_.Boolean| *is* Variable,  *has* Variable|isLocked|
    |_.Date|variable *Time*|startTime|
    |_.Event Handler| *handle* Variable | handleLinkClick |
    |_.Object| - ||
    |_.Int| - ||
    |_.String| - ||

h2. Constants

Variables or property names that are intended to be constant values (that is, they should not be changed later), should be in all uppercase with words separate by underscores. Example:

<pre>MAXIMUM_TIMEOUT</pre>

Constants should always be used whenever dealing with:

* *URLs* - these may change in the future, it's best to keep them out of your business logic.
* *Settings* - things that control the UI or other settings that may change in the future.
* *Repeated strings* - any string that is used in your code more than once should be a constant.

h2. Objects

h3. Properties

* Public property names should be formatted in camel case but not in Hungarian notation. This helps to keep the public API clean. For example:
<pre><code class="javascript">
this.className = "My";  //correct
this.strClassName = "My";  //avoid!!
</code></pre>
* Private property names should be formatted in the same way but should be prefixed with an underscore:
<pre><code class="javascript">
var _name = "My";
</code></pre>
** Module properties are considered to be public so using the underscore is not necessary.

h3. Methods

* Public method names should be formatted in camel case but not in Hungarian notation. For example:
<pre><code class="javascript">
MyObject.prototype.getName = function () { ... }    //correct
MyObject.prototype.fnGetName = function () { ... }  //avoid!!
</code></pre>
* All methods should include trace information using  *Y.log*. The format should be as follows:
<pre><code class="javascript">
Y.log("<method name>() <message>", "<severity>", "<module name>");
</code></pre>
** The method name should always appear first, followed be a message (such as "foo() is executed."). The second argument should be kept as "info". The third argument should be the module name (for example, "space-centralize" or "space/photos/_list"), which aids in filtering the trace messages.
** Public methods, minimally, must have a  *Y.log*  statement as the first line of the method, specifying the arguments that were passed in. For example:
<pre><code class="javascript">
MyObject.prototype.setName = function (name) {
    Y.log("setName(): Setting name to " + name, "info", "space");
    this.name = name;
}
</code></pre>
** All references to  *Y.log()*  and  *this.Y.log()*  will be stripped out as part of the build process.
** Note: If you are developing under the "Module":https://github.com/miiicasa/javascript-platform-yui environment, always use  *_api.log*  instead.

h2. Coding Practices

h3. Abbreviation

Use the following abbreviation.

* msg, txt,

DON't use the following abbreviation.

* cont, def, 

h3. English Only

You shouldn't write any non-english characters including comments.
For prompting message functions such as alert(), you should use getTrans() instead of writing non-english words directly.

h3. Declare Variables at the Beginning of Functions

Whenever possible, all variables used in a function should be declared at the beginning of the function using  *var*.

h3. Event Delegation

Each view should have *only one click event handler*. This can be attached on the view node itself and should handle all clicks for the view:

<pre><code class="javascript">
var body = moduleapi.getViewNode("default");
body.on("click", this.handleClick, this, true);
</code></pre>

You could use delegate method in YUI easily, see the following example:
<pre><code class="javascript">
Y.delegate("click", _clickHandler, "#container", "li");
</code></pre>

h3. Create Shortcut Variables for Object Properties

When an object property is referenced two or more times within a function, create a shortcut variable for it. This reduces the amount of code, enables the YUI Compressor to perform variable replacement on it, and reduces the lookup time for the value (each property lookup is more expensive than a property lookup). For example:
<pre><code class="javascript">
this.body.on("click", this.handleClick, this, true);
this.body.firstChild.set("class", "selected");
</code></pre>
The code above should be rewritten as follows:
<pre><code class="javascript">
var body = this.body;
body.on("click", this.handleClick, this, true);
body.firstChild().set("class", "selected");
</code></pre>

h3. Avoid Using Globals

Global variables such as  *window*  and  *document*  should not be used or assumed to be available. It's possible that modules may need to work in a locked-down environment where such variables are not accessible. You should be able to do everything necessary using just facilities provided by modules.

h3. Condition Operator Usage

The condition operator (*?:*) should be used only to assign variables and never for code that doesn't assign a value.

<pre><code class="javascript">
//proper use
var value = (condition ? 100 : 200); 

//AVOID!!! Doesn't assign a value - use if statement instead
(condition ? doSomething() : null);
</code></pre>
Any time a condition doesn't return a value, an  *if*  statement should be used instead.

h3. Function Declarations

All functions should be declared before they are used. Anonymous functions should follow the var statement and end with a semi-colon. This helps make it clear what variables are included in its scope.

There should be no space between the name of a function and the (  (left parenthesis) of its parameter list. There should be one space between the ) (right parenthesis)  and the { (left curly brace) that begins the statement body. The body itself is indented four spaces. The }  (right curly brace) is aligned with the line containing the beginning of the declaration of the function.

<pre><code class="javascript">
function getData() {
}
var getData = function () {
};
</code></pre>

h3. === and !== Operators.

It is almost always better to use the === and !== operators. The \== and != operators do type coercion. In particular, do not use == to compare against falsy values.

h3. Statements

All block statements, regardless of the number of lines, should use curly braces. There should be a line break after the left curly brace and the lines inside should be indented. For example:

<pre><code class="javascript">
if (true) {
    doSomething();
}

if (true) doSomething();    //avoid!!

if (true)
    doSomething();            //avoid!!

</code></pre>

Take *if* Statement as example, the class of statements should have the following form:

<pre><code class="javascript">
if (condition) {
    statements
}

if (condition) {
    statements
} else {
    statements
}
   
if (condition) {
    statements
} else if (condition) {
    statements
} else {
    statements
} 
</code></pre>

A *for* class of statements should have the following form:

<pre><code class="javascript">
for (initialization; condition; update) {
    statements
}

for (var i = 0, j = items.length; i < j; i++) {
    statements
}

for (var variable in object) {
    statements
} 
</code></pre>

h3. OOP

* You should avoid use 'this' in OOP JavaScript, it's very confusing because it might means the instance, the window, or the event target. Always assign to '*that*' variable at very beginning of a function.

<pre><code class="js">
play: function () {
    _log("play() is executed.");
    var that = this,
    // ...
}
</code></pre>

h3. Naming for Event Handler / Message Listener

The name of a event handler should start with the word " *handle* ".

<pre><code class="js">
var _handleClick = function (e) {
    e.preventDefault();
};
</code></pre>

h3. Logging

* For tracing code easier, you should always log at the beginning of a function.
<pre><code class="js">_api.log("init() is executed.");</code></pre>
* Always specify the third parameter, the module name, in Y.log method. It is very helpful to filter the logging output by setting YUI config's logInclude or logExclude attributes.
<pre><code class="js">Y.log("init() is executed.", "info", "#photos-list");</code></pre>
** Forget this if it's a module using miiiCasa's module library. 
<pre><code class="js">_api.log("init() is executed.");</code></pre>
* If it's a view module, the module name must be its selector. (#photo-list)
<pre><code class="js">Y.log("init() is executed.", "info", "#photo-list"); 
_api.log("init() is executed"); // equals to the above line if you use module library. </code></pre>
* If it's not a view module (a customized YUI module), just use it's module name for logging. 
<pre><code class="js">Y.log("play() is executed.", "info", "vlc"); </code></pre>
* If it's module name contains folder architecture, use the last word for logging.
<pre><code class="js">Y.log("parse() is executed.", "info", "video-parser"); </code></pre>
* You should exclude any logging message before committing your code.

h3. Alphabetical Order

* Under the premise of not breaking the function, please make some collections default values with alphabetical order.
** <pre><code class="js"></code>
// Please insert it alphabetical order.
AUDIO : ["AMR", "AAC", "AIFF", "MP3", "MIDI", "MID", "M4A", "OGG", "MMF", "WAV", "WMA" ],
VIDEO : [
    "3GP", "3G2", "3GP2", "3GPP", "AMV", "ASF", "ASX", "AVI", "CUE", "DAT", "DIVX", "DV", "FLV", "GXF", "ISO",
    "MPA", "MP2", "MPG", "MPEG", "MPE", "MPG", "MOV", "MP4", "MP4V", "M4V", "MKV", "MPEG1", "MPEG2", "MPEG4", "M2T", "M2TS", "MPV2",  "MTS", "M1V", "M2V", "MXF",
    "NSV", "NUV", "OGM", "OGV", "OGX", "PS", "QT", "REC", "RAM", "RM", "RA", "RMVB", "RAM", "SWF", "TS", "TOD",
    "TTS", "VRO", "VOB", "VIV", "WMV", "WM", "WEBM"
],
PHOTO : ["BMP", "CDR", "CMF", "CUR", "DAT", "GIF", "ICO", "JPG", "JEPG", "PSD", "PNG"]
</pre>

h2. Reference

* "Code Conventions for the JavaScript Programming Language":http://javascript.crockford.com/code.html
* "Google JavaScript style Guide":http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javascriptguide.xml
* "The Essentials of Writing High Quality JavaScript":http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/javascript-ajax/the-essentials-of-writing-high-quality-javascript/
